Cool, so
let's actually go into that counter.
And let's go ahead and [SOUND].
This one will most likely blow up
cuz I have not brought in any DOM.
Let's actually see that in practice.
So we'll go into src/examples/counter.
And we'll do, let's go ahead and
go into this counter, and let's go ahead,
aspire to be as easy as
render(< Counter />).
If you do like an npm start,
you can see the counter and
all the other demo apps on one page,
to verify my sanity.
It looks like it has an Increment button,
it has a Reset button.
It has the current count since the last
catastrophe, which at the time was just
something I thought was funny before I
literally had a catastrophe earlier today.
So I would hit that Reset button to zero,
if I was being intellectually
honest with myself, right?
And so we can go ahead,
we'll do npm run build, no, npm test.
Cool.
In this case, it fails and
we actually want not
just the solution one.
We'll see why that fails in a second.
That is intentional.
In this folder we'll do counter.test.
All right, cool.
It skipped, so
that's why it doesn't blow up.
Now it blows up.
Document is not defined.
Few ways I can do this, I can do that
like //@vitest-environment.
Let's do happy-dom.
And now it passes, right?
Because all it does is it puts
basically a global document object and
a window object and
spec compliant implementations
of everything that you
would have in the browser.
So you could theoretically,
I believe, let's see.
I could do, I believe,
screen.debug(document.body).
Let's rerun, let's do a --run a second.
Yeah, not a lot to see here.
There's a body element in the document,
for document.body.
The lighter document will
have everything on there.
But if one was to, let's go ahead, and
let's actually say render
that counter again.
You can now see that that React counter
is rendered to that document.body.
And you'll notice that that is not React,
that's why you got the regular word class,
you don't have any on-click handlers.
This is literally a serialization
of the actual DOM itself.
So this is great when we talked about
one of the value props of component
testing is that we're using
this stuff as our users would.
As far as my test is concerned, yeah,
I'm rendering a React component.
This could be a Vue component.
This could be just regular index.html and
let it parse.
This could be whatever you want it to be.
And it doesn't matter.
So one of the things we talked
about early in the workshop was
maybe you would like to migrate
from Backbone to React, right?
You could,
unit tests are not gonna get you there,
cuz unit tests are very closely
tied to the implementation.
You could write a ton of unit tests, and
you will throw them all away when
you throw away that implementation.
Other than the actual
rendering of this counter,
which you could probably abstract and
be clever with.
You can basically,
this is gonna be regular DOM.
So as long as these tests pass,
you just kinda swap it out to like mount,
whatever the counter says,
other way, and obviously,
the browser based tests even more.
And it's from the user's
perspective of JC Dom.
We will start to click it as a user and
stuff along those lines.
And those are more kind
of resilient to changes.
You can refactor all sorts of stuff and it
doesn't really matter because as long as I
click the button, and
it increments, we're good to go.
Like I said, the fact that this doesn't
blow up means that the test passes.
Which honestly, like I said before,
there are tests that I don't keep
in the final result that I
like as sanity checks, right?
I like them to just be like,
is my test suite even working, right?
A lot of times I have a VS Code snippet,
which is like test whatever,
expect true to be true.
Am I even running the test
file that I think I'm running?
[LAUGH] Little stuff like that.
Cuz maybe you're better than me, but
I have lost afternoons to stupider things.